One of the key concepts or
legs of the Blue Ocean strategy
is what they call non-customers.
No customers, no customers
we refer to targeting
a target audience, a target
segment that so far has
not bought us or any of
our competitors.
It's thinking of people, explained
so in a simple way, in people who
are not buying us.
And this has huge benefits
obviously because you think
that in any sector all competitors
within that sector are targeting
current customers, current
customer segments
and all struggle
for the same cake.
But the blue ocean strategy proposes
us not to go to that
cake, what you do is create
another.
Basically it would be something That's, that'
s the important thing about the strategy.
Instead of fighting them all for the
same piece of cake, let's look for
another cake in which we are alone
at least initially.
That is.
Well, then if you tell us, because clear,
but it is that it is very, Carlos said
no, it is that it is very complicated
really think of no customers or
seek no customers is of the most
difficult things that there are
in the blue ocean strategy.
Of course, it's difficult because
we're talking about not
customers precisely, we're talking
about segments that we haven't
even noticed we could get to
sell them.
But if we are able to work on that
reflection as we work on
it, we will see that more segments
are conceived of us.
This is a matter of habit like
almost everything in life,
insist until we are with a segment
where we can really differentiate.
Look, what you say, what you said
I love and I have said, I have said
it many times throughout the Power
MBA and I think that this, I don'
t know, generally innovate at the
business level doesn't need to
be creative.
It is not necessary to be a creative
person, it is necessary to know this
type of tools, it is necessary,
as you said, the habit, for
example, to think in these terms.
If I get used to thinking about non-
customers, the day I have a new
project, I start thinking about
non-customers from the beginning,
I start thinking in those terms
and so it's much easier to innovate.
In fact, in addition to many times
to test a new segment of customers
does not require a large investment,
neither economic nor in time,
nor much less in risk,
so that in the event that
we did not succeed, nothing
happens.
We're insisting on a new
segment of non-customers until
we finally find our ocean.
That is.
Tell us some examples of companies
that have known how to think about non-
customers and have successfully
captured them.
Well, the example that comes to
mind closest to everyone we
are here is the Power MBA
itself.
The Power MBA has been aimed at
a segment of customers, not
clients, aware that they had a need
to improve their training,
their skills for management,
in the end, each will have
their concerns and goals,
but all of them shared the
one that they possibly did not
consider to make a traditional
MBA for a matter of cost,
but also in many cases
of time.
The Power MBA is aimed at that large
segment of non-customers with
a proposal that truly fits them in
time and cost.
Yes, it is so, it is something that is
right, it is something we have said many
times, that many of our students are
knowledgeable of the proposals that
are in the traditional MBAs and are
people who do not square them, they
are not clients because they do
not square them, because no, many are
very busy people who do not have the
time to stop studying during, well,
because they devote so much time
and there are people who either
do not have or do not have the
money or do not want to spend it
and also are knowledgeable that
you can learn otherwise.
So that's actually one of the reasons
for the success of The Power MBA.
Another example that I think of and
that we have already talked about
in previous classes is that of the
male segment for a pharmacy office.
Men, being about half the
population, are not pharmacy
customers beyond going to buy
a drug or a cream on
order, yet men take care
of themselves more and more,
do not do gyms, do not
do sports stores, do
not do pipes, talk on social
media, but do not
do it in pharmacies.
That pharmacy that provides a
specific value proposal for a
segment of non-customers such
as men, will probably see their
business increased in a tremendously
high percentage.
Surely that is?
Another example that we have also
seen very recently in previous classes,
the sun circus itself, thinking
about making one of these points
is something tremendously innovative,
it is an entire segment that
the circus in principle had
not set up to address it.
Once you choose it and differences
and adapt your value proposal, the
benefits that are achieved,
as we will see below, derived
from directing customers are
enormous.
And finally, one example that
I especially like is the
hamburger chain known
by the whole world.
Who is McDonald's selling to?
McDonald's sells to families, children,
grandparents, during the weekends,
between weeks and sometimes
for birthday celebrations
and always at their establishments.
Well, there has been a
huge innovation at McDonald'
s since they decided not
long ago to target a huge
segment of non-customers.
And I'm referring to the segment of
boyfriends, people who get married
and who are increasingly making these
weddings in private properties,
usually not in restaurants, because
this would compete with McDonald's.
Thinking of a segment of customers
who would never have gone to celebrate
their wedding or anything like McDonald'
s, McDonald's has been able to differentiate
its proposal to the value of
adapting it to this segment.
Thinking of the coves, in that tentempié
that give us high hours of the
morning to be able to lengthen
the party and celebrate the wedding
a little more.
What has McDonald's changed?
For almost everything, it had
to move, something that it did
not before, it was always as we
said in its establishments, it had
to move to the estate where the weddings
are celebrated, it has had to
design a whole bet on the scene
through different vintage
cartels, a portfolio of products
since those smaller and lighter,
suitable for the type of
consumption that will be
made.
But it's a great example of non-
customers, every euro McDonald'
s sells at a wedding bar would
not have sold it in any way
if it hadn't thought in terms
of non-customers.
This is a surprising
and clear example.
To really conclude this class,
as we said at the beginning, one
of the criteria for creating a Blue
Ocean is to think of non-customers
because when they talk about a
Blue Ocean they talk about a new
market space, a space where
there are no competitors
and the only way to really
create a new market space
is to go to a new space of
demand, to a new group of non-
customers, people who are
not buying you until that moment.
What happens is that you have the right to...
No, I told you because if you actually
head to an existing market
segment your strategy
will be different.
What the Blue Ocean strategy brings
us is to think in terms of
not customers and create that
Blue Ocean.
If we are able to it in greater
or lesser measure and have seen
examples that I think are relevant,
let us follow, let me summarize,
Borja, the benefits that
from my point of view we will
have if we that success
in non-customers.
First, an incremental business,
as we said at McDonald's,
sell where we would not
have sold in any other way
if we had not applied this
strategy.
Create a very strong differentiation
that will reduce or even eliminate
competition sometimes and
that will immediately
result in an increase
in our profitability.
And we will also generate some
entry barriers that will make
it very difficult for a competitor
to be ahead of us and be he who
at that time steals our
current customers.
So, I think not being the
only leg of the Blue
Ocean strategy is thinking
in terms of no customers,
possibly the most Totally
Agree.